I found Epstein's piece to be quite timely. At times it feels like we live in an age of implicit modeling. What I mean here is that in the marketplace of ideas, it seems as if few assumptions are "laid out in detail", nor are they necessarily tested with any kind of rigor.

I also really appreciate Epstein's 16 other reasons for modeling. He was not explicit about this but the reader gets the sense that prediction is something like creating art for money. In these 16 reasons I felt a few to be irresistibly compelling. One is the idea that "all the best models are wrong". This certainly alleviates some pressure. Even a wrong model can shed insight, create intuition, or "help us see the truth". It's worth noting here that "Models in Science" touches on this as well. In the section over the debate over realism it is said that "good models are often false and that supposedly true theories might not help much understanding, say, the working of a laser".

Another big idea of the 16 other reasons to model I loved was that a model might illuminate analogous processes, behaviors, or systems. He refers to these analogies as " headlights in dark unexplored territory". As an example asks whether social behaviors spread similarly to epidemics. 

Lastly and this relates again to Epstein's piece being timely, I really appreciated the idea of enforcing "a scientific habit of mind". This habit of mind is one based in curiosity and uncertainty or as he puts it, "one of militant ignorance". The marketplace of ideas could certainly lean more in this direction!

I kind of thought Models in Science was a philosopher's model of the scientific approach to modeling. However, a more accurate but less fun way to characterize it would be a philosophical critique of modeling. I definitely found this piece to be a bit laborious - especially the section "models of phenomena". In this section there is again overlap with Epstein's piece, especially around analogy. In this work there is an extensive exploration of the idea of analogy, but honestly it feels like its being overcomplicated a bit. Perhaps it's overreaching for exactitude if you will. Shared properties, relationships between parts, yada, yada, yada, I prefer Epstein's more concise viewpoints here. However, this section does introduce a key concept of the paper - idealizations. 

I should say I enjoyed the section "Ontology: What Are Models?". It was fun to wrestle with the idea of models as fictitious objects. However, I don't see the "variety of things" he characterizes as models as working in isolation. For instance I would imagine a descriptive model leading to a set of equations. Perhaps I am being naive here. 

While I found it to be a bit tedious I found it to be an interesting paper, which thoroughly surveys the major philosophical positions around models over the last several decades.
